1
CE318 Assignment
Part I due: Friday 7
th November 2025
Part II due: Friday 12
th December 2025
The assignment consists of designing and implementing a 3D game in Unity3D. The assignment is
worth 50% of the total mark for this module and will be assessed according to standard degree-grade
criteria.
You will be expected to present your game in person on Monday 8
th of December 2025. You have a
considerable degree of freedom in your choice of game as long as it meets the criteria listed below.
Examples include 3D shooters (e.g., Unreal Tournament), extended 3D Pong with object collection,
extended 3D Angry Birds, racing games, spaceship simulators, etc.
The software should be well designed and organised into appropriate scripts, with control structures
as simple as possible. Comments should be used in the code where necessary (you have to judge when
that is). The following marks break-down is approximate.
Please note that:
• Extensive use of third-party libraries is not allowed.
• All code segments and assets based on or inspired by work created by someone else must be
properly acknowledged and referenced, including:
o Source code
o Textures
o 3D models
o Sprites
o Audio
• Unity assets must be created by yourself or be freely available from the asset store. Using
content that is not created by yourself or is not correctly credited will be grounds for
awarding a mark of zero.
• It is also forbidden to submit one of the weekly lab assignments, or extensions of those. The
game must be different than the ones from the labs.
Module Assignments
The two assignments for this module are as follows:
• Game prototype and Design (20%)
• Final Game (30%)
2
Part I
Game prototype and Design (20%)
The assessment of the first part of the assignment is divided into two parts:
• Game prototype (10%)
• Game Design Document (10%)
The following sections detail what is required for each one of these deliverables. Please, read carefully,
and check also the submission instructions at the end.
Game Prototype
The game prototype must be the initial version of your final game. It doesn’t need to be polished in
terms of graphics or framerate, but it needs to be played in some degree and show the main idea and
dynamics of the game.
The game should contain one playable scene, and it should at least have the following features. The
prototype will be assessed on these, but it is recommended that you do not limit yourself to these
ones and start with the ones from Part II.
• Some kind of player’s input control. For instance, an object (i.e. the player) that is moved with the
keyboard.
• A functional, dynamic camera. It can be a camera that follows the player, either moving around
the world or fixed but always oriented to its target.
• Collisions and physics should work properly (even if you decide to change them for part II).
• The scene should contain at least one source of audio and at least one source of light (different
from Ambient Light).
• The player should be able to interact with something in the environment (other than just colliding
with it). For instance, it could be a simple (but better than random) enemy, an opponent or a
hazard for the player.
Game Design Document
The objective of this part is to write a report that describes the game design and specification of the
game that you will develop for the second part. A PDF of about 8 pages long must be submitted, which
should include:
Cover Page: With the module name and code, student ID, and a title for the game.
Overview: A short description about what the game is about (max. 250 words).
Gameplay: Main components of your game. Describe those that make your game unique and are
necessary for your game to work, and also the ones that aim to enhance enjoyment but are not vital.
In short, components of the game, and how will the game work.
Interface: Description of the intended controls and Head Up Display / GUI.
Objectives: Description of the objectives to be accomplished by the player.
3
Look & Feel: General design of the levels, camera settings, style of the art, ambience (i.e. sounds,
particle systems) and cultural references that inspire the game (architecture, books, movies, etc.).
Story: Backstory and main plot of the game. Characters involved in the game, motivation.
You are welcome to include screenshots of your prototype in this document. For examples of game
specifications look at the case studies, (e.g. case study 2.8) in the following book:
Rollings, Andrew, and Dave Morris, “Game Architecture and Design: A New Edition.” NRG,2003
See report guidelines in the ‘Submitting Your assignment’ section.
Referencing Assets
Your report must contain references to the assets (and any third-party scripts) you have used. To
reference content from the asset store, please use the following format:
[Asset Pack Name], by [Author Name] ([link if possible]) for example, to reference the ’Standard
Assets’ pack:
Standard Assets, by Unity Technologies (https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/essentials/assetpacks/standard-assets-32351)
You can use the ‘share’ button to get a link to the asset pack.
Deliverables
The following components should be included as part of your submission:
• Game prototype (with everything needed for it to be run).
• Game design document (in PDF).
Please note that due the file capacity limitations of Faser, you will need to use one drive to upload
your game. Instructions can be found in the ‘Submitting Your Assignment’ section.
4
Part II
The assessment of the second part of the assignment is divided into several parts.
For CE318 students:
• Full Game (15%)
• Final Report (10%)
• 5-minute presentation + YouTube video of gameplay (5%, peer reviewed)
Final Game
The final game consists of a fully implemented game that must include all the following features (1 to
4). These will be graded according to how correctly they are implemented, and how coherent they are
within the game (you will lose points for features that you don’t implement, but also for implemented
features that do not make sense within the game).
1. Game Structure (20%):
• Menus: main menu, options, pause and end menu.
• Splash screen when the game starts.
• 2 playable scenes.
• There must be fade in/out transitions between screens, menus and scenes.
• At least one of the scenes is played on a terrain, or uses a terrain as a background.
2. Gameplay (20%):
• Different collectable items such as health packs, boosters, etc.
• At least two difficulty levels (as in playing in Easy or Hard mode, for each scene).
• A selection of game parameters, adjustable from the options menu (i.e. music on/off, volume,
difficulty, etc.), using the appropriate mode for loading and saving them.
• It must be possible to save and load games.
3. Art (20%):
• Audio: Multiple sound effects, 3D sounds and background music.
• Lights: Multiple sources of light.
• Cameras: Either more than one camera, or camera animation at the beginning of the level.
• Effects: Multiple particle effects, from static and not static emitters.
• Materials: Use of materials and standard/non-standard shaders to give the game a good
look.
4. AI artefacts (20%):
• There must be different types of intelligent agents that are controlled by different FSMs
and/or Behaviour Trees.
• At least one of these intelligent agents must use Pathfinding (NavMesh) to navigate the level.
• At least two Steering Behaviours should be implemented (i.e. for the other intelligent agents).
• Player and NPCs must be animated.
5
5. Advanced Features (20%)
• A tutorial level (apart from the 2 playable scenes) that demonstrates the user how the game
is played.
• Advanced AI: Implementation of a Hierarchical Finite State Machine, a Decision Tree
combined with an FSM, or any other modern AI technique for agent behaviour (Monte Carlo
Tree Search, Rolling Horizon Evolution, etc.).
Final Report
The final report consists of a document (in PDF) of about 15 pages that must include a cover page with
the module name and code, student name and ID, and a title for the game. This document is called
Game Description Document, and it must provide a detailed description of the implemented game.
You must include a description of each one of the features (from page 3) implemented and, if any of
those has not been included, a well argumented reason for this. It is very important that you include
code snippets, diagrams and screenshots as appropriate, as well as acknowledging assets or other
materials taken from somebody else. Additionally, you should include a section that explains how the
game is played.
Referencing Assets
Your report must contain references to the assets (and any third-party scripts) you have used. To
reference content from the asset store, please use the following format:
[Asset Pack Name], by [Author Name] ([link if possible])
For example, to reference the ’Standard Assets’ pack:
Standard Assets, by Unity Technologies (https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/essentials/assetpacks/standard-assets-32351)
You can use the ‘share’ button to get a link to the asset pack.
5 Minute Presentation
5-minute presentations of each game will take place on Monday 8
th of December 2025. This
presentation must include a video of 1 minute of gameplay, which you must also upload to YouTube.
You need to submit your presentation slides, in PDF, with your submission, along with the link to the
video. This presentation will be assessed as follows:
• 50% Assessed by the lecturer and/or the GLA
• 50%: Assessed by your peer students. All students in the lab session will assess each presentation,
giving credit in 4 areas: quality of the presentation, level of “fun” of the game, aesthetics of the
game, and overall product. For this part of the assessment, we reserve the right to not taking into
account (non-objective) extremely high or extremely low marks. The identity of who marks this
will be anonymous to the person being assessed, but not to the lecturer/GLA/GTA of the module.
Deliverables
The following components should be submitted as part of your assignment:
6
• Final game (with everything needed for it to be run)
• Final report (in PDF)
• Presentation slides (PDF)
• Gameplay video.
Please note due the file capacity limitations of Faser, you will need to use one drive to upload your
game. Instructions can be found in the ‘Submitting Your Assignment’ section.
Submitting Your Assignment
Both submissions (parts I and II) must be submitted through FASER. All written documents must be in
PDF format. Full game and prototype must contain all files needed to run the game.
The following considerations must be observed at all times:
• The final game must be submitted with at least 2 playable scenes. Failing to do this will halve the
final mark of the second part of the assignment.
• The game must be playable at least from a laptop with keyboard and mouse. Use of other input
devices is allowed and encouraged, but keyboard and mouse must be able to be used at all times.
• No builds will be accepted in the submission. The complete Unity project must be submitted for
both parts, and runnable in Unity. The project is expected to be compatible with the version of
Unity 6 we use during the labs (6000.0.57f1). Projects created in a different version of Unity can
be submitted at your own risk (note that version incompatibilities may make your game not work,
which could affect your final mark).
• Report Guidelines: All reports must use 11-point Times New Roman font with 1.5 line-spacing.
Margins should be 2 cm on all four sides. The pages of text must be numbered consecutively at
the bottom centre of each page.
Game Uploads
Due to the limited file capacity in Faser, the following procedure is set to upload your games, so they
can be downloaded and marked. Note that you still need to submit before the specified deadline, and
the written documents need to be submitted to Faser as usual!
Follow this procedure to upload your assignment:
1. Zip all the necessary files needed to run your Unity game. This, of course, includes project files,
assets, data, source code, etc. Everything that is needed for me to run your project.
2. Upload your assignment to your OneDrive. You have this service enabled in your University
account, and you can access it through Office 365. Your uploaded game must not be modified
after the deadline (OneDrive registers the timestamp of the last modification).
3. Once it is uploaded, right click on the file (in OneDrive) and select the option “Get Link”. A
window will appear with a link that you have to copy.
4. Include, in the cover page of your report, the link you obtained in the previous step.
5. Remember to include the link to the YouTube video of your game, in the Final Report of Part
II.
6. Submit all your written documents to Faser, normally, in a ZIP file.
7
* Important READ * Authorship and Plagiarism
WARNING AND ADVICE ABOUT POSSIBLE ACADEMIC OFFENCES
Your solutions should be your own unaided work. You can make use of any of the programs from the
CE318 lecture notes and the lab solutions.
You must NOT use any third-party classes (e.g. classes that are not provided as part of the module),
unless you clearly indicate this as comments in the program, and the extent of the reference must be
clearly indicated. For more information, please see the University pages on plagiarism and the
Academic Offences Procedures.
DO NOT COPY PROGRAM CODE FOR THIS ASSIGNMENT FROM ANOTHER STUDENT OR
FROM THE INTERNET OR FROM ANY OTHER SOURCES. DO NOT LET OTHER STUDENTS
COPY YOUR WORK.