




High-Level Games Development
CE318
Student ID: 2206694
Game Title: The Last Oasis
Project Link: https://essexuniversity-my.sharepoint.com/:u:/g/personal/vs22222_essex_ac_uk/Eezv7ujjVwJIpQBW9sRyoMwB2B0dViFZySKMuLDVaM0FSw
Overview
The Last Oasis is a single-player top-down survival game inspired by Alien Swarm and the movie Mad Max. The game is supported on PCs operating on Windows, Mac, and Linux. The target audience is mainly teenagers (12+) but could also be interesting to any fan of survival games. In the game, the player takes the role of the main character Ares, an elite soldier of a super civilization that survived a nuclear war. The player has to stay alive in the arena full of AI-powered enemies by fighting them back for as long as possible. The player can fight bare-knuckle, run, pick up items, and use weapons. They would also run around the small world, run into bonuses, and try to survive constantly spawning and approaching bots.
The game is time-fixed, and the player has to survive for 5 minutes before they win. This ensures that the game doesn’t take too much time and keeps the tension for not too long. In that way, the game offers potential players the opportunity to try a popular survival game where they don’t have to sit in front of their desks for long hours. The game offers different difficulties to choose from. These include easy, medium, and hard. The difference is in the number of enemies attacking the player, their speed and damage, frequency of bonus spawning, and the player’s health and damage.
Gameplay
Main Components Necessary for the Game to Work
The game mechanics involve running around the game world in a small desert village. The player can approach different buildings and even get on some of them using stairs.
They can hit approaching enemies with the character's bare hands or a sword. They could also shoot them using a gun.
The player can pick up different items, and those include weapons and power-up potions. Both attacking and picking up items are done with simple right-clicking on the objects.
Physics in the game are realistic and powered by Unity’s engine to ensure good optimization and a smooth user experience.
There are AI-powered enemies that are constantly spawned around the village and try to kill the player
Enhancing Enjoyment but Not Vital
The game also has an implemented scoring system to track the user’s score when they win or lose, which keeps them motivated to beat their high scores or compete against friends.
The player gets to choose different difficulty levels, from an easier mode to a harder one. Harder mode ensures the user gets more points for longer survival and shooting enemies.
The harder the game gets, the stronger the enemies get and more of them are spawned around.
Also, if the difficulty is set to hard, the frequency of the items spawned might be much lower.
How the Game Works
Normal game scenarios would involve the player taking advantage of all the mechanics described above.
The rules of the game are pretty simple - the player has to do their best and survive 5 minutes by fighting back enemies and picking up all the available bonuses/weapons.
There are no other levels and missions except for the main gameplay.
Interface
Controls
The character is controlled with click-to-move controls. All the items picked up are stored and displayed in their inventory and can be activated by pressing a corresponding key on their keyboard. In order to pause the game, the player has to simply press the ESC button. From that pop-up pause menu, they can:
Restart the round
Exit into the main menu
Exit the game
In the main menu, they can choose the difficulty of the game but it cannot be done mid-game.
HUD / GUI
The HUD has the player's health bar on it with some other key information, such as:
The amount of time left before the game finishes
How many enemies they have killed
Ammo status
Their current score, which is calculated by adding their kills, time survived, and bonus pickups
The player also can see their picked-up items in the inventory window of the HUD at the bottom of their screen, and there will be a window with all the information about the player's characteristics, like damage, attack speed, and size.
UI Style
The UI is somewhere between being minimalistic and detailed. It has all the necessary information for the player to know about the game, yet it doesn’t overwhelm them with unnecessary facts like distance to the nearest building or those that don’t help them win the game. In this way, the player will not get distracted by surroundings in the game and can focus on the main goal - try and survive those 5 minutes and achieve the highest possible score.
Objectives
Main goal
Surviving for 5 minutes at a set difficulty by fighting enemies that are attacking the player and by picking up boosts.
Secondary goal
Achieve the highest possible score by collecting points for both killing enemies and finishing the game.
Winning condition
Stay alive for the full 5 minutes and get rescued by other soldiers according to the game scenario.
Losing condition
Dying before the 5 minutes are over.
Scoring motivation
Players are encouraged to beat their own score and win on harder difficulties.
Score multipliers
Winning on medium difficulty doubles the final score.
Winning on hard difficulty triples the final score.
Look & Feel
The game
The game has a stylized low-poly 3D art style. The objects are modeled with simple geometric shapes and minimal surface detail. The textures are mostly flat or little detailed, giving the environment a cartoon-like feeling. The dominant colors are dark yellow and light brown. They are used for the ground and buildings, as everything is happening in a small desert village. The village has a few lanterns with warm orange lights. In the middle of the village and arena is a small fountain. Bonuses like extra health potions or weapons are smoothly floating in the air. When the player picks them up, they disappear from the world but go into the player’s inventory. Also when the player chooses different difficulty, the scene changes 
The camera
The game is in a top-down perspective, which ensures that a lot of objects around the character are displayed on the screen to the player. The camera cannot be rotated or moved manually, and it always follows the main character no matter where they go. In that way, Ares always remains in the centre of the screen.
The art style
There are nice animations of characters’ movements and different actions. The lighting is warm and dramatic. The textures are mostly flat or little detailed, giving the environment a cartoon-like feeling.
The background music
The background music is tense, which puts some extra pressure on the player and sets the tone for fast action. Some desert wind background noises could also be heard.
Cultural Inspirations
The place looks like a Middle-Eastern desert village, with sand-brick buildings, palms, warm lanterns, and a fountain in the center where people gather.
Story
Backstory
Ares is one of the world-class soldiers from a super civilization that survived a nuclear war. During a very dangerous combat mission in the desert, he got captured by enemies but managed to run away. All his weapons got robbed. He spent many days wandering through the desert, trying to find some water just to stay alive. Accidentally, he came across a small oasis with a village full of hostile locals around it. After he tried to sneakily get some water from their oasis, he got perceived as a threat by the locals, and they started attacking him.
Main Plot
After capturing one of them, he realized that those are none other than the enemy state’s spies on a secret mission. He manages to find a signal gun and fires it in the sky so his army notices that and sends troops to help him. Since that specific moment, his main goal was to stay alive for as long as possible before support arrives. He has to kill all the enemies coming in his way by fighting them back and picking up bonuses.
Characters and Motivation
Ares is one of the world-class soldiers from a super civilization. He got captured by enemies but managed to run away. His main goal was to stay alive for as long as possible before support arrives.
Final Boss
At the very end, before he gets rescued, Ares has to face the final boss - a super strong AI-powered enemy that tries to attack him with much higher damage than other bots. 
Prototype Screenshots


Reference List
Mixamo Characters, by Adobe/Mixamo (https://www.mixamo.com/#/?page=1&type=Character)
Mixamo Ninja Character, by Adobe/Mixamo (https://www.mixamo.com/#/?page=1&query=ninja&type=Character)
Low Poly Desert Village, by FLEED (https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/3d/environments/low-poly-desert-village-314881)
Simple Gems and Items – Ultimate Animated & Customizable Pack, by Lightning Box Games (https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/3d/props/simple-gems-and-items-ultimate-animated-customizable-pack-73764)
Stone Lantern Pack, by Carl Hultström (https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/3d/environments/historic/stone-lantern-pack-139776)
“Click to Move | Unity Tutorial”, by Trever Mock (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LVu3_IVCzys)
“Unity 2020 | Achieve Click to Move Functionality”, by Game Dev Academy (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=us_Ccdxd7KM)
“Click to Move | Unity Tutorial (timestamped)”, by Trever Mock (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LVu3_IVCzys&t=133s)
Unity Mouse Click Movement Template (Source Code), by ItsPogle (https://github.com/ItsPogle/Unity-Mouse-Click-Movement-Template)
